it's easier than ever to start a side
hustle and get your own thing going but
why do so many people fail at that
attempt you're listening to this episode
because specifically you want to start
or grow or scale your own thing your own
business and you want to be successful
you're probably looking at all the other
people in your space and going like why
are they so much more successful than me
like and and what do I need to do
differently in order to have that kind
of success how do I turn things around
my name is chalene Johnson I am the
co-host of this podcast and today I'm
going to share with you specifically my
own experience in having coached tens of
thousands of entrepreneurs people
started a side hustle and it turned into
something that not only replaced their
full-time income but far exceeded their
wildest expectations I myself have
created I don't know how many different
businesses from physical products
digital products the list goes on you
know your girl's been around the block
and I like to share the mistakes that
I've made in the missteps that we've had
to help you avoid them
so I want to start first with the
biggest reasons why I see people who
should be positioned to be successful
why they fail now you may have noticed
if you listen to many of our episodes
that Brock and I do together rock kind
of focuses more on the social media side
of things and I personally prefer to
help you and to share the knowledge I
have around business Basics operations
management people the things that help
your business scale and I say that
because I believe one of the reasons why
most side hustles they reach a maximum
and then people fizzle out and they go
back to working for somebody else or
they try to start another thing and
another thing and another thing
constantly chasing their own tail and
getting further and further in debt and
I think one of the main reasons why that
happens is because people focus solely
or almost exclusively on building their
business using social media without
doing the things you need to do in order
to make sure that your business has a
solid foundation in and the crazy thing
about that is that solid foundation if
you have someone who can show you
exactly what those steps are it takes
like literally less than two weeks
part-time like just if you just did a
couple of hours a day for two weeks you
be well on your way to having an
established business Foundation What
specifically am I talking about I'm
talking about understanding truly your
Niche not just your industry but your
specific Niche down Niche who
specifically are you talking to and it
is my pet peeve when I hear people say
well this will work for anyone this will
work for everyone that's a great way to
see your business get stuck so it's
figuring out who it is you want help
specifically really really specifically
it's understanding who you are your
brand your brand voice your brand colors
your brand awareness you want to create
your logo it's understanding what images
resonate with your identified Avatar
it's also estab publishing okay I need a
domain name I need to create an email
list these things I know they sound big
and cumbersome and some of you may think
well I already have a website because I
get that through my company no I'm
talking about one you own you own the
domain if the company went away you
still own the domain and creating a
domain is is very inexpensive it's your
legacy connecting that to an email a CRM
customer relationship Management program
whatever you want to call it's an email
list like MailChimp there's a million
others I'm not going to list them all
but it's creating an email list and then
it's understanding like what's the
customer Journey need to look like it's
thinking through like okay if I want to
help people with this particular problem
I can't just sell them one thing that's
the solution because then I'm constantly
looking for new customers right it's
different than that it's how do I create
a relationship with this person so that
I can serve them on their journey and I
think the biggest mistake I see new
entrepreneurs making is that they swing
for the fences they want to create this
two thousand or five thousand or ten
thousand dollar program thinking okay
this is going to solve all of my
customers problems but they don't have
that kind of relate like that is a kind
of
investment that requires a relationship
you know one of our programs you can
find it on chalene.com the marketing
impact Academy that's something that we
sell for it's almost twelve thousand
dollars you're not just like stumbling
up on my website and and investing
twelve thousand dollars with somebody
you've never met like that just doesn't
happen you've got to build trust and
Trust comes from showing up day after
day after day you want your own domain
you want to own that and personally I
recommend you start with something
that's a derivative of your name so
maybe
maybe Steve Jones isn't available but
you could do the original Steve Jones or
Steve Jones on fire like whatever
have something that's a derivative of
your name because as with most
entrepreneurs including myself you kind
of need an umbrella website because
you're likely going to do a lot of
different things build multiple streams
of income once you know how to get the
foundation right so the foundation
includes again setting up that CRM right
so you've got this place to collect the
email addresses but how are you going to
collect email addresses well you have to
start with like what is It ultimately I
want to help people with what's the Big
Goal what would be the big giant you
know end of the road product and then
walking it back and creating a customer
journey and you don't have to build it
all out in the first two weeks but if
you just knew like okay I'm gonna offer
these three things this four newbie this
for someone who's an intermediate and
this one who's intermediate to Advanced
and maybe you haven't even figured out
what the advanced course is but just
kind of figuring what that customer
Journey looks like and oftentimes the
journey kind of steps up in price and in
the level of advanced skills that you're
teaching or maybe the size of the thing
that you're offering like so for example
you might sell jewelry and you've got
costume jewelry that's for that
introductory level customer and then
you've got jewelry that's gold-plated
and that's a little bit more expensive
and then you've got fine jewelry so
you're thinking about the customer
journey and their experience once you
have that in place then you can kind of
walk it even one step further back and
go all right what could I help people
with that I could give away for free so
that's your freemium it's like that
thing that you're offering to people
that allows them to experience how you
deliver who you are so don't give people
a throwaway freemium recently we started
reviewing our freemiums and there were a
couple of them that I'm just going to
very honest they weren't converting
great like people were downloading them
like crazy but they weren't turning
ultimately into sales and I'm like oh we
gotta figure this out and so when I went
back and looked at those freemiums I'm
like well this is garbage like
unfortunately I gave the instructions on
how to create that frame I turned it
over to team members who are you know no
longer with us and no fault of their own
but what they put together wasn't what I
had envisioned and it was my own fault
because I didn't go back and look at it
and say like is this truly a great
representation of what it is we deliver
to customers so that they know what they
can expect and it wasn't so we've done a
lot of things to improve those freemiums
one that I've recently revised and
improved is our 50 story ideas to help
you know what you should be posting on
Instagram to help you sell if you want
to just see how we deliver an email how
we follow up with you I'm just going to
be completely transparent when you
download this you're going to get
follow-up emails from me that it will
encourage you to invest in one of our
programs so you can unsubscribe if you
want but my recommendation to you would
be follow along and see if we actually
could help you if nothing else you're
going to see what it should look like
like how to nurture people once they
join your email list how to deliver that
freemium to them and if you've got any
feedback from me I would love it drop it
below this episode and tell me you know
hey I didn't love this process it was
funky or I didn't like this or there's a
typo whatever I always say typo typos
are part of our brand because I do want
people to know make it messy and you'll
you will be so much more successful If
instead of worrying about typos and
mistakes you get it out there because
the person who you can help they
understand it's about the message not
whether the I came before the E hold on
if you're like me you can sometimes lose
interest in the middle of a great
podcast episode and you might not make
it all the way to the end and at the end
of this video and just in case you don't
make it to the end I just want to tell
you that in an upcoming episode I am
going to break down why it is you need
more than one stream of income because
things change in your industry there's
so much going on with AI and with
changes in social media there's so many
things that may impact your current
industry
people who are in course creation
network marketing like there's a lot of
changes coming that I don't think you
should jump from what you're doing but I
do think it's really wise for you to
create an additional stream of income
and there's an order in which to do it
and so I am going to release Here on
build your tribe an episode where I'm
going to break that down I'm going to
break down all of our different streams
of income the order that we built them
in and how I think you should build them
in because things are different today
how much time each one of them takes and
why it's so important to do that which
ones are the easiest which ones make the
most sense which ones are like probably
a waste of time and I'm going to be
releasing that shortly so please make
sure you're subscribed and if you're on
YouTube do yourself a favor and be sure
to turn on the notification Bell if you
turn on that notification Bell you're
not going to miss that episode also a
big part of your foundation is
understanding Which social media
platform you should own and when I say
own meaning like you know everything
about it inside and out and today today
it is different than what it was five
years ago and I think one of the reasons
why people are failing in their side
house muscles is because they're trying
to do that themselves they're trying to
know everything about Pinterest they're
trying to know everything about YouTube
they're trying to figure out everything
they need to know about Instagram
themselves rather than just freaking pay
invest in someone who is the go-to
expert in that on that platform okay
because you don't have time these
platforms now when they first launched
yeah you could figure out Instagram in
like a couple of weeks and master it
Facebook yeah wasn't that difficult now
all of these platforms are so robust
each and every one of them you need an
expert who's your go-to or you're going
to waste all of your time trying to
figure that out and spend none of your
time growing your business which is the
only thing you should be focused on the
next biggest mistake that you might be
making is trying to do everything
yourself because you think it saves you
money and I'm not just talking about
figuring out social media you know to
piggyback onto my last point but I'm
talking about you even trying to figure
out how to set up your website and
connect your email list like it is easy
but if if that's your bottleneck if
you're like I know I need to do that I
just it kind of overwhelms me freaking
pay someone else to do it today it is so
cheap literally it is so cheap to find
people and we're talking like less than
ten dollars to have someone set up and
connect a CRM to your website like you
can find Freelancers who are willing to
do this how can they make money just
charging ten dollars or something like
that because they do it all day they
could do it in their sleep they can do
it in two seconds whereas for you it's
going to take you all day to make maybe
all day to figure that out is your time
not worth more than a dollar an hour
like you're gonna spend 10 hours
figuring this out like no that doesn't
make any sense pay someone to do these
things they're amazing consultants and
people who are experts in everything you
can possibly imagine from branding to
website design to you know the user
experience on your website marketing
Facebook ads content creation growing
your Instagram like all these things the
best advice I can give you
is look at anyone who's incredibly
successful that you're looking at you're
like I want to be like them one day what
they probably did back in the day was
try to figure it out themselves but if
you listen closely to any of those
people's stories today they Outsource
all of that and I know that feels really
hard to do when you're not making any
money in your business trust me I've
been there where there was like zero
coming in but I'm like okay so I have
two choices I can keep creating the
things that only I can create or I can
spend weeks months hours days trying to
figure out how to do this stuff myself
get it wrong get frustrated and then
never get it right and listen to what
I'm about to say you can't afford not to
invest in experts for almost everything
and the quicker that becomes your
mindset you're going to see the faster
your wealth and your success grows it's
a leap of faith but it's a faith in
yourself it's a faith in other people
it's a faith in team it's a faith in
people like it is really the difference
between not what you need to do but who
you need to hire to do that great book
that really drives this message home is
who not how and this book is exceptional
I recommend it on Audible audible books
are one of the best ways for you to
educate yourself when it comes to being
a successful entrepreneur because the
most successful people in your industry
the people who you admire they've
written books and they've told you
exactly what to do and what not to do
the next thing I want to talk about is
inspiration versus duplication what I'm
talking about is when you're looking at
what everyone else is doing and you're
just duplicating it yeah it's in your
words but it just feels like a copy and
paste I think that's the biggest mistake
that we make and it's okay it's I think
one of the best ways to get started like
you know sometimes that's what you need
you it's it's inspiration and you're
like well someone else has done it and
it works so why don't I try that case in
point when my husband and I got deeply
deeply in debt while building a single
stream of income that was powder blue
Productions it was a a fitness company
that we developed together and then we
got deeply deeply in debt not because of
the business but because of personal
decisions we made and addictions and the
only way we're going to get out of that
debt even no matter how successful our
business was it was never gonna pay down
the debt in our lifetime we felt like we
could never get ahead and we need to
quickly because we owed a lot of people
a lot of money so we were like okay
we've got to create additional streams
of income I had two small kids didn't
really want to spend more I already felt
like I was working 80 hours a week so I
looked to okay
let me think about this I bought these
cassettes a long time ago like back when
cassettes were a thing from Tony Robbins
called I don't care what you think about
him at the time like it really did make
a difference in my mindset it was a
program called personal power and when I
bought that program I'm like wow I just
spent a fortune on this I don't remember
what I paid originally but I was like
these this is just him talking this is
just his opinions his experiences
and he's making millions just sharing
his own experience on these cassettes
this is something I need to duplicate
this was my copy of personal power and
it was a program that I sold instead of
12 cassettes it was 12 CDs literally I
literally copied that I named it Car
Smart because I was really I had so much
imposter syndrome I'm like oh my gosh
first of all I'm not talking about
anything I went to school for this isn't
School smarts this is in business smarts
this isn't smarts from a degree this is
just car smarts like and I called it Car
Smart because I'm like it's just me
driving around my car talking to you I
called it Car Smart because I thought
that almost dumbed it down so that
people would have like a lower
expectation and lo and behold we sold
that that set of 12 and it I'd love to
know if you ever purchased a Car Smart
CD because that really created this
emotional bond with my audience and I
loved it and it was the perfect
additional stream of income now that was
a physical product but I I really looked
at what Tony Robbins was doing and it
ended there like I just needed that
inspiration and yes I would even say
that I almost duplicated his idea there
but once I had that success and that
notch on my belt I was like okay this
has to be my own thing you know and so
then I created my own thing which was a
monthly recurring Revenue Source by
having people buy a subscription to
carsmart and I would ship them a new CD
every month and it was an incredible
stream of income for us which leads me
to the next mistake that new
entrepreneurs and side Hustlers make and
that is not looking at how Industries
are changing once I realized that people
were getting this type of content from
podcasts I saw sales just start to
decline this is like back in 2010 sales
started to decline of car smart and it
was enough for me to realize like okay
where are things probably going to go
and that didn't mean I need to jump ship
from car smart but it need it meant that
I need to create like a little a
transition where I could start creating
a podcast get enough people listening
that I could get enough uh sponsorships
and eventually this income would replace
this income because this one was going
down just by popularity as this one was
Rising so my recommendation to you is to
always keep your eye on the industry
like think about yourself think about
how things are changing pay attention to
artificial intelligence pay attention to
what's popular what's losing popularity
talk to people in your industry network
with them to understand like what
changes are they seeing like you know I
hope that you're a part of a network
where people are generous with their
knowledge I hope that that's why you
listen to this podcast because I try to
be as generous as possible and I see a
lot of changes that are happening to
people who are in the course industry
and if you'd like for me to do a
follow-up episode about those changes
please drop a comment below this episode
you know share this episode and tag
myself and Brock let us know that you'd
like us to dig in further to some of the
changes that I think we're going to see
because of AI because of some changes in
marketing that you probably heard us
mention in this episode that we did on
Master reselling rights I think that
could have a pretty interesting impact
on the industry that's why it's so
important that you get your foundation
right on your current existing side
hustle get that side hustle making you
money so that it's at a place with
systems and the people in place that you
have the space the bandwidth to create
an additional stream of income today the
riskiest thing you can do is just have
one stream you need multiple streams
things are changing too fast with the
economy with AI with social media you
just never know when a pandemic is going
to wipe out an industry that's why it's
so important so critical that you get
one side hustle cranking working like a
charm before you build your second
stream of income make sure you subscribe
okay because I will release a complete
training on the different streams of
income how you build them why and in
what order I suggest you build those
streams of income because you can't
build them all at once and some are a
lot easier than others so I'll do a
complete breakdown of that make sure
you're subscribed so you don't miss it
hey thanks for being here it's my goal
to make it brief to make it fun and then
be done and we are done
[Music]
thank you